# Sentence Word Order

For now, just to be simple, we'll use:

    Subject - Obejct - Verb (e.g.: I hamburger eat)
    or
    Subject - Adjective (e.g.: I beautiful)

The subject does the action. The object whatever the verb is acting _on_ 

Every Korean sentence and clause must end in one of the following:

- A Verb
- An adjective, or
- 이다

Every verb, every adjective and 이다 end in "다", and these are the only words in Korean that can be conjugated.

# Korean Particles (~는/은 and ~를/을)

These particles indicate the role of each word in a sentence - that is, specifically which word is the subject or object.

- 는 or 은 (Subject)
- 를 or 을 (Object)

# To be: 이다

Like adjectives, 이다 can not act on an object.

이다 is not used in sentences like:

- I am pretty
- She if beautiful
- The are hungry
- We are smart

But is used in these types of sentences:

- I am a man
- He is a man
- They are men
- I was a man
- They were men

이다 is used to indicat that a noun is a noun. The basic structure is

    [noun은/는] [another noun][이다] 

이다 is attached directly to the second noun, not including a space between. Important: the second noun, even it looks like, it isn't an object!

# This and That (이/그/저)

이 is used for something that is close, next, to you. Translates to 'this'

그 for something from a previous sentence or context. Even if you cannot see that thing.

저 something that is too far away.

We place these before a noun.

When 것 (thing) is used after one of these words, they act like pronouns.

# Using This/That with 이다

We can now make sentences like this: That person is a teacher.

그 사람은 선생님이다

* 그 (that)
* 사람 (person)
* 은 (particle, indicating the subject)
* 선생님 (teacher)
* 이다 (to be, is)